# Chapter 8 - Main Memory

## Practice Exercises

### 8.1
- Two differences between virtual and physical addresses are:
    - Virtual addresses are an abstract address with an abstract address space (not an existing address), whereas physical addresses are an actual address in memory.
    - A virtual address is generated by the CPU and is translated by the MMU to a physical address. 
        - Physical addresses are generated by the MMU which they then reside in physical memory (DRAM).

### 8.2:
- The major advantage for this base-limit register scheme is that it's an effective mechanism for code and data sharing by making sure that each process has its own address space. This also scheme also offers protection which prevents a process from accessing memory outside its allocated space. A disadvantage to this scheme is that code and data needs to be separated in memory which can lead to inefficiencies. 

### 8.3:
- Page sizes are always powers of 2 due to its simplicity during the process of translating a logical address into a page ID and page offset. It is most efficient to break the address into m page bits and n offset bits, rather than doing extra math to get the page ID and offset. Now because each bit represents a power of 2, splitting an address between bits results in a page size that is a power of 2 as well. 

### 8.4:
- We have a virtual address space of 64 pages of 1024 words each, mapped onto a physical memory of 32 frames:
    - How many bits are there in the virtual address?
        - Virtual address = page ID, offset 
            - Page ID = log(64) = 6 bits
            - Offset = log(1024) = 10 bits 
            - 10 + 6 = 16 bits in the virtual address.
    - How many bits are there in the physical address?
        - Physical address = frame ID, offset
            - Frame ID = log(64) = 6 bits
            - Offset = log(32) = 5 bits
            - 10 + 5 = 15 bits in the physical address.

### 8.5:
- .

### 8.9:
- Internal fragmentation occurs when a process gets allocated more memory than it actually needs, resulting in unused memory within an allocated region. External fragmentation occurs when there is enough total free memory, but it's split into tiny, non-contiguous chunks, making it impossible to allocate enough memory for a large process.
